#summary Basic setup and tutorial for 7th Sense
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Requirements =

 * Properly configured Java (The code was designed and built with Java-SE 1.6).
 * Tool to extract a .zip file

= Installation =

 * Extract "seventhsense-`*`.zip" (where "`*`" is the current build).
 * Simply run seventhsense.jar after extraction.
 * To help finding bugs and the developing process, you can add the programm argument "-logger" to show a logger window and log to "log.txt"

= Basic setup for a *Basic Scenario* =

The default starting view is "Library". Here you can edit the library with all its Directories and Scenarios.

== Creating a *Basic Scenario* ==

By clicking on "*+*" you can create a new node in the library tree. Possible node types are:
 * *Folder* nodes are only structuring elements, that help to categorize *Scenarios*. They do not reflect the file system in any way.
 * *Basic Scenario* nodes are the playable scenarios and core elements of seventh sense.
 * *Link* nodes reflect the properties of the destination linked node, which can be of any type.

== Editing a *Basic Scenario* ==

By selecting a *Basic Scenario*, you can edit its properties on the right side of the splitter.

=== Creating and editing *Music Items* ===

The basic elements in a *Basic Scenario* are *Music Items*. They will be played all the time in the background. As soon as they have a *Media File* assigned to them, they are ready to play. You can adjust individual volume and fading options. By unchecking *"Is Intro Song"* the *Music Item* won't play as first song (except if there is no *Intro Song*). *"Is Loop Song"* works similar: When unchecked, the item won't be played again after the intro song.

_TODO_: Create a randomize checkbox for the *Music List*, functionality is already implemented, but missing the button.

=== Creating and editing *Sound Effect Items* ===

*Sound Effect Items* make it possible to add effects to the scenery.
Example: We have an urban scenario where peoples in a crowd are doing noises. This is simply created by adding some effects, e.g. a sound for the crowd that is looping always (set both "*Restart Randomizer Time Range*" *Minimum* and *Maximum* to 0) and a cough sound that will play sometimes, lets say with a delay of 20 seconds to 3 minutes.

_TODO_: Implement Scripting, currently there is no action performed.

== Preparing the *Basic Scenario* for a session ==

To use the newly created *Basic Scenario*, switch to the *Playlist Manager* tab on the left. There you see the library on the left and your current playlist on the right. Simply drag'n'drop (you can also use the buttons or copy'n'paste) the *Basic Scenario* to the right panel.

== Using the *Basic Scenario* in a session ==

Select the *Playlist* tab on the left. By selecting a scenario you can start playing by pressing the play button. You can also assign it to a shortcut by dragging it on the F-Buttons or on the description field on the right. As long as the window is in foreground you now can use the F`*`-keys to switch to a scenario.

_TODO_: Create a volume slider.